So you said you have a lot of books with stories.
When Kepler published his epitome of Copernican astronomy, he did it in sections.
So it's awfully expensive if you get it complete, but I was able sort of piecemeal to buy the sections when they came up.
And this particular one was advertised as being sections 5, 6, and 7, which is the ending part.
But I could tell from the collation that that wasn't right.
because it says here on the title page that it's books five, six, and seven, but this is Liber Cortis, number four, which is here, but there's no title page for it.
And then you do hit five and six and seven at the end, but number four was published separately.
What I discovered rather recently was
On February 15, 1621, Kepler wrote to his friend Berneger that he had sent him a copy of Book 4 lacking the title and the preamble.
And on the 21st of August, 1621, he wrote that he had 17 copies lacking this part.
And it's interesting that this copy lacks those parts.
And it's in a very early binding.
So it's been like that.
I have to assume.
that it's one of those seventeen copies Kepler had early from the press before the agreement finished.
And you discovered this by reading Kepler's papers and stuff?
Yeah, it's in the Kepler edition of the correspondence.
I stumbled on it.
You didn't stumble.
There's no luck here.
This is detective work.
It really is.
Somebody then said, Jimmy, if I take the title page and dedication out of my book, it makes it more valuable.
I said, well,
It depends on what the integrity of the book is.
I think that would be, exactly.
Oh, this is delightful.
I should just advise you that it's ten minutes to twelve if you're... Yeah, no, it's about time for me to get this exam published in a more final form.
This is the world's largest collection of ephemerities in here of the 16th and 17th century.
Now, an ephemeris is... Well, you say the lead for last, as we say in the Chinese paper business.
An ephemeris is a book that lists several years of planetary positions day by day.
And I'll show you one just so you get an idea of why they can be extremely interesting.
Now, I'm interested in them because I'm interested in looking at the accuracy of these planetary positions
to see how they were computing the tables, and to watch the progress as astronomical computations gradually become more sophisticated.
So that's how I got into book collecting in the first place, to get examples of these, actually to use for the research.
And that's E-P-H-E-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E-R-I-D-E-S-F-M-E
He was a, sorry, he was a rival of Galileo's.
He got the job in Bologna that Galileo wanted.
This man also corresponds with Kepler.
In the back of this book, there are, there's the first printing of some of the Kepler correspondents.
But this particular copy is interesting to me because it was owned by an official in the Vatican.
And he has written
in the margins various things that are going on at the time.
He writes what the weather is when the river is flooded.
Stuff like that here.
It's raining, raining for two days on end.
And we're looking at the year 1621 here, too.
And there are still mysterious things for me.
This is kind of cute.
Somebody must have brought a telescope to the Vatican because there is Jupiter with the four satellites Galileo had discovered on each side of them.
What do you feel when you see that, when you go by that and you see that?
I think it's real neat.
There must be a thrill and a feeling.
Oh, it's very interesting to see it.
Here the Arno has flooded.
How does this help you directly with your work?
You say you became a bibliophile to acquire these books for your work.
In order to examine how the positions are being computed.
For example, the positions of the planets.
Because this is claims on the title page that these positions are
are most accurately corrected and so on, and that this is newly computed or something.
And since he has in the back the information as to how Kepler would have done it, you might suppose that Magini is the very first person to use Kepler's calculations for making his ephemerides.
No.
Because I also have his previous version, and the numbers are exactly the same.
So despite his claims on the title page, he has not actually recomputed the positions.
And you said you have the largest collection?
You mean in private hands, or the largest collection?
Well, maybe by the time you print the book, I will have...
fully made the comparison between the British Library and the Bibliotheque Nationale.
I've narrowed it down to the fact that those are the only two competitors at this point.
And do you have an idea of numbers?
How many volumes?
Well, it's sort of the bookshelves down here.
That, I mean, 20 feet of them.
Sure.
I mean, because it's the two shelves there.
Because they're not all there.
Several hundred volumes, to be sure.
No, I don't think several hundred volumes, but 20 feet of shelf space.
Okay, fair enough.
This is interesting.
You should do a little catalog of it, actually.
Have you thought of doing that?
Well, I'm working towards something.
Look, Pope Gregory XV died.
So he has that in there like a news bulletin, right?
He had that for 1623, was that right?
That's right.
On a page for 1623.
Another 1623 page.
And now Cardinal Barberini has been created, the Pontifex Maximus, and is called Urban the Eight.
And Urban the Eight is the one who has the confrontation with Galileo.
Wow.
So why is he putting these little news... Well, you don't really need to know it to the nearest ten minutes when he's elected, unless you're planning to do a horoscope.
And so he does do this to the nearest ten minutes.
What does he do to the nearest ten minutes?
He records... When Barbarini is elected Pope.
And what does he say, December 6th?
Is that what he says?
No, this is in August.
It's the sixth day, the 15th hour, and the 10th minute.
And he knows when...
Pope Gregory just died to 21 hours and three quarters.
Wow.
And this is also for 1623.
And who's the author once more?
I'm sure it's in here.
Magini is the author of the book.
But the man who's writing the annotations.
Oh, this is the owner.
This is an unknown owner then.
No, he's got his name in the book someplace.
You have to really read carefully before you find it.
But he...
That's exciting.
Is a known official.
You see what you've taken as a book that 99.9 people would find totally boring, wouldn't they?
Or inaccessible.
And look what you've done with it.
Krauss, huh?
Yeah.
Now, did they do all the... They figured out that it was from the library of Gregorio Cibo.
Gregorio, G-R-E-G-O-R-I-O, Cibo, C-Y-B-O.
Can you just read what else they say about him?
Deacon at the court of Pope Gregory XV, see his entry at 15 February 1622, with his annotations in the year 1621-29, and purchased on a final pastown dated 1620.
Okay.
So that's a... That's a plum.
That really is.
That's magnificent.
Okay, you know, I know you're running a little late.
Were you going to inscribe my book for me?
Oh, yeah.
I might as well let you take it.
And this is the copy for me.
And you were going to allow me, I guess, to...
to the Italian gentleman you're going to see?
Oh, yes.
I thought I would better give you that after I visit.
Okay, fine.
Fair enough.
So I know a little better.
I just spent six very interesting hours in the Royal Greenwich Observatory archives, which are now in the Cambridge University Library.
Oh, look at that.
This is what is known as a crock.
Why don't you turn on your tape recorder?
It's on.
Just put it on when you start it.
Crock, C-R-O-C-K.
Yeah, incomplete, miserable sort of thing.
It's a folio-sized book.
It's a pretty big book.
It's bound in blue.
That's very important, this blue paper.
Well, I saw it in the Dunham sale from Sotheby's, and I thought, oh, they must be misdescribing it or something, and I just passed it over.
But one of the
book dealer friends from England, Roger Gaskell, said, you know, you ought to look very carefully at that book.
I think it's rather interesting.
But it was in a lot with a Flamsteed Atlas.
Now, what's interesting about this book is that this is called the Historia Celestis, and it has the observations that the first astronomer royal, John Flamsteed, was making at the Greenwich Observatory.
But
He was a, uh, felt he wasn't getting proper support from the government and he didn't have enough assistance to get the stuff copied out and so on.
And he was a very reluctant publisher.
And Isaac Newton was really chafing at the bit because he wanted those lunar observations to check out his new lunar theory.
So he got himself and Edmund Halley appointed on a board of visitors from the
observatory to make sure that the king was getting his money's worth.
And they did a certain amount of scheming and got the manuscript material from Newton and proceeded to press with it, despite Flamsteed's objections.
And eventually this book came out in 1712, a little bit more than twice as thick as what you see here.
When political fortunes changed,
Flamstein was able to get the 300 undistributed copies back, whereupon he took out the part that, the earlier part that had been printed and that he approved of, to recycle into his authorized edition, but he burnt the rest of it.
What you have here are only the pages that were burned.
Wow.
Not the pages that were saved.
How does that happen?
If you start to think about it, the only way that can happen is that this is a copy from which Flamsteed has taken the material to be recycled, but which for some reason he has chosen to save.
That's amazing.
He's chosen to save it because it is a working copy from Greenwich Observatory in which everything that Halley has done has been very carefully crossed out.
because he's furious at the changes that were made.
Not only that, but a certain number of stars have been crossed out, a lot of changes that Hallie made in the numbers he's taking exception to.
So I got a friend who really wanted the Flamsteed Atlas, and we bid and lost.
And Roger Gaskell said, yeah, but the guy who got it probably really wanted the Atlas, and he probably doesn't want that old incomplete crock.
So it was a telephone bit, anonymous.
Why don't you call, why don't you send a letter to Socrates and make an offer?
So I did exactly that.
And the next thing I knew, I had W. Graham Arater on the phone.
Interesting.
You know the name.
Indeed, yeah.
Uh-huh.
I guess he'd already cut up the Atlas.
Quite in character, isn't it?
Yeah.
I suspect, in due time, he would have cut out these three beautiful engraved headbands, framed them up, and thrown the rest of it away.
Amazing.
So, with the manuscripts there, it was possible to really figure out what was going on.
book, adding to what they had in the manuscripts, made it very clear as to what had happened and what Flamsteen was objecting to and so on.
By getting that book, by getting what you did, you were able to solve a puzzle, actually.
Which is going into an article in
Flamsteed Symposium that is just being assembled.
And that's Flamsteed Historiary Coalition.
Briefly, the speech that you're giving at the Grolier next week, will that be published in the Gazette of the Grolier Club, do you think?
No, they seem somehow to want to publish something, and I'm not exactly sure what we're going to do about it, because part of it will be storytelling that's not just easy to write out, and a lot of it will be some good new results that they would definitely want to print.
But I've essentially...
offered these people an article, so I think the serious form of it will come out here.
Do you know when that might be?
Because I certainly would like to quote it at some point.
As soon as I have a manuscript, I can send you a copy of that bulletin.
What, is it Du Bibliophile?
Du Bibliophile.
But do you think at some point, because if I have a copy of your manuscript, I will reference it in my book.
Yeah.
Which I think would be worthwhile.
I am going to give a very nice bibliography again to this new book.
and uh so anything that's that is pertinent will get in and of course i'd run a quarter as well but that's down the road a little bit okay well anyhow as long as i better get my exam okay if you just kindly conscribe my book oh yeah i i keep thinking i'm going to capture this not with nick res brings